# Python Projects
An amalgamation of various solved python problems and text-based games highlighting the overall scope of my python ability. Particular python projects to look at are, the **Collatz Conjecture**, **Number Guessing**, **Text-Based Adventure Game**, **Hangman**, **Patient / Doctor Scheduler**.
## Numbers
- **Find PI to the Nth Digit** - Enter a number and have the program generate &pi; (pi) up to that many decimal places. Keep a limit to how far the program will go.
- **Find e to the Nth Digit** - Just like the previous problem, but with e instead of &pi; (pi). Enter a number and have the program generate e up to that many decimal places. Keep a limit to how far the program will go.
- **Fibonacci Sequence** - Enter a number and have the program generate the Fibonacci sequence to that number or to the Nth number.
- **Prime Factorization** - Have the user enter a number and find all Prime Factors (if there are any) and display them.
- **Next Prime Number** - Have the program find prime numbers until the user chooses to stop asking for the next one.
- **Find Cost of Tile to Cover W x H Floor** - Calculate the total cost of tile it would take to cover a floor plan of width and height, using a cost entered by the user.
- **Mortgage Calculator** - Calculate the monthly payments of a fixed term mortgage over given Nth terms at a given interest rate. Also figure out how long it will take the user to pay back the loan. For added complexity, add an option for users to select the compounding interval (Monthly, Weekly, Daily, Continually).
- **Change Return Program** - The user enters a cost and then the amount of money given. The program will figure out the change and the number of quarters, dimes, nickels, pennies needed for the change.
- **Unit Converter (temp, currency, volume, mass and more)** - Converts various units between one another. The user enters the type of unit being entered, the type of unit they want to convert to and then the value. The program will then make the conversion.
- **Happy Numbers** - A happy number is defined by the following process. Starting with any positive integer, replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits, and repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it will stay), or it loops endlessly in a cycle which does not include 1. Those numbers for which this process ends in 1 are happy numbers, while those that do not end in 1 are unhappy numbers. Display an example of your output here. Find first 8 happy numbers.
- **Coin Flip Simulation** - Write some code that simulates flipping a single coin however many times the user decides. The code should record the outcomes and count the number of tails and heads.
## Classic Algorithms
- **Collatz Conjecture** - Start with a number *n > 1*. Find the number of steps it takes to reach one using the following process: If *n* is even, divide it by 2. If *n* is odd, multiply it by 3 and add 1.
## Text
- **Reverse a String** - Enter a string and the program will reverse it and print it out.
- **Pig Latin** - Pig Latin is a game of alterations played on the English language game. To create the Pig Latin form of an English word the initial consonant sound is transposed to the end of the word and an ay is affixed (Ex.: "banana" would yield anana-bay). Read Wikipedia for more information on rules.
- **Count Vowels** - Enter a string and the program counts the number of vowels in the text. For added complexity have it report a sum of each vowel found.
- **Check if Palindrome** - Checks if the string entered by the user is a palindrome. That is that it reads the same forwards as backwards like “racecar”
- **Count Words in a String** - Counts the number of individual words in a string. For added complexity read these strings in from a text file and generate a summary.
- **Mad Libs Generator** - Primarily focused on strings, variables, and concatenation. The program design is such that it will ask users to enter a series of inputs that will be considered as a Mad Lib
- **Number Guessing** - Make a program in which the computer randomly chooses a number between 1 to 10, 1 to 100, or any range. Then give users a hint to guess the number. Every time the user guesses wrong, he gets another clue, and his score gets reduced. The clue can be multiples, divisible, greater or smaller, or a combination of all.
- **Text-Based Adventure Game** - This is a basic version of the Adventure game. It is completely text-based. In this version of the game, users can move about through different rooms within a single setting, and based on the user input, it will provide descriptions for each room. Movement direction is crucial here – you must create walls and set the directions in which the users can move through the rooms, set movement restrictions, and also include a tracker that can track how far a user has walked or moved in the game.
- **Dice Rolling Simulator** - As the name of the program suggests, we will be imitating a rolling dice. This is one of the interesting python projects and will generate a random number each dice the program runs, and the users can use the dice repeatedly for as long as he wants. When the user rolls the dice, the program will generate a random number between 1 and 6 (as on a standard dice). The number will then be displayed to the user. It will also ask users if they would like to roll the dice again. The program should also include a function that can randomly grab a number within 1 to 6 and print it.
- **Hangman** - This is more of a “guess the word” game. The core concepts you have to use while developing this project are variables, random, integer, strings, char, input and output, and boolean. In the game, users have to enter letter guesses, and each user will have a limited number of guesses (a counter variable is needed for limiting the guesses). This is one of the interesting python projects to begin with. You can create a pre-organized list of words that users can grab words from. Also, you must include specific functions to check whether or not a user has entered a single letter or if the input letter is in the hidden word, to if the user has actually inputted a single letter, and to print the correct outcomes (letters).
## Classes
- **Airline** - Create a reservation system which books airline seats or hotel rooms. It charges various rates for particular sections of the plane or hotel. Example, first class is going to cost more than coach. Hotel rooms have penthouse suites which cost more. Keep track of when rooms will be available and can be scheduled.
- **Company Manager** - Create an hierarchy of classes - abstract class Employee and subclasses HourlyEmployee, SalariedEmployee, Manager and Executive. Every one's pay is calculated differently, research a bit about it. After you've established an employee hierarchy, create a Company class that allows you to manage the employees. You should be able to hire, fire and raise employees.
- **Bank Account Manager** - Create a class called Account which will be an abstract class for three other classes called CheckingAccount, SavingsAccount and BusinessAccount. Manage credits and debits from these accounts through an ATM style program.
- **Patient / Doctor Scheduler** - Create a patient class and a doctor class. Have a doctor that can handle multiple patients and setup a scheduling program where a doctor can only handle 16 patients during an 8 hr work day.
- **Shape Area and Perimeter Classes** - Create an abstract class called Shape and then inherit from it other shapes like diamond, rectangle, circle, triangle etc. Then have each class override the area and perimeter functionality to handle each shape type.
- **Family Tree Creator** - Create a class called Person which will have a name, when they were born and when (and if) they died. Allow the user to create these Person classes and put them into a family tree structure. Print out the tree to the screen.
